In the previous video, we have done configuring
extended access list with this example case.
Now in this video, we are going to test the
configuration that we have done.
Let’s test from vlan 10 to the server.
From pc 0 ping to all server, let’s ping
to server 1 first, 192.168.1.10,
okay this is success.
Next, let’s try to server 2, this is should
be failed, why?
Because only vlan 20 who allowed to go to
server 2, let’s try, ping 192.168.1.20,
okay here we can see that this is failed.
Let’s try to server 3, this is also should
be failed, because only vlan 30 who allowed
to go to server 3.
Ping 192.168.1.30, okay this is also failed.
Let’s test from vlan 20, vlan 20 to server 1,
this is should be success, ping 192.168.1.10,
okay success, next let’s test to server 2,
this is also should be success.
Ping 192.168.1.20, okay success.,
Last, let’s try to server 3, this is should
be failed, ping 192.168.1.30, okay failed.
Next, let’s try
from vlan 30, ping to server 1 first,
ping 192.168.1.10, this is should be success.
Okay success.
Let’s try to server 2, this is should be
failed, ping 192.168.1.20, okay failed.
Last, let’s try to sever 3, this is should
be success.
Okay success.
Okay so now the result is correct based on
the case.
Next, let’s try to access using web browser.
From vlan 30 to the server, this is should
be failed, why?
Because here we access using http, here we
can see request timeout, this is means failed.
Let’s try using https, here we can see that
this is success.
Okay so now http is blocked, but https is
still allowed.
So our configuration is correct.
I think enough for this video.
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next video.